---
layout: default
title: HostOS Server Information 
parent: Hardware
---



## HostOS Server Information

## Page Summary

* This page contains information about servers in use by the HostOS development team
* This page contains servers that may or may not be used as part of the build process to generate artifacts that will be used as part of the NextGen or NextGen deployments.

## Reference

* [Network Information](https://confluence.swg.usma.ibm.com:8445/display/DevOps/Network+Information) about the various servers used by devops.
* Unfortunately, I didn't see this until *after* I generate this wiki page.

## Fileservers

* The 'devops fileservers' are used today to maintain local debian apt repositories, primarily for standard OS packages needed during build and deploys.
* These fileservers are actively used by the, soon to be deprecated, 'tactical' platform deploy mechanism.
* These fileserverers are currently used by the HostOS payload builds to locally source standard OS packages.  There is an effort in progress to move away from using the fileservers for this purpose, and instead use IBM managed artifactory for this.



| IP | Name | Location | Rack | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 9\.41\.34\.95 | devopsfileserver1 | TD |  |  |
| 9\.41\.34\.108 | devopsfileserver2 | TD |  |  |

## Tactical Deploy Master Regions

* master\_regions, as specified in mzonexxx.yml files are servers with storage located locally within the data center where the mzone being deployed is located.
* master regions are used to store developer generated, or CICD generated 'snapshots', which contain all the sw bits to perform a platform deploy on a given mzone.
* master regions and snapshots are a 'tactical' deploy paradigm, that will be deprecated once we fully roll our the latest HostOS tooling.
* example data from mzonexx.yml file:

  




```
> grep master_region -A 3  /Users/aross/genctl/genctl-platform/devops/bootstrap/config/region/mzone705.yml
master_region: 10.41.33.190
regionid: 5
hwtype: 5
```



| IP | Name | Location | Rack | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10\.41\.33\.190 | master1 | TD | rk003\-s39 |  |
| 10\.41\.33\.178 | master4 | TD | rk003\-s38 |  |
| ~~10\.41\.33\.175~~ | ~~master3~~ | ~~TD~~ | ~~rk003\-s38~~ | Concourse server now |
|  |  |  |  |  |

## Build Servers

* Hostorically, devops have maintained a small number of dedciated 'build servers'
* These build servers are often used by many developers to perform builds, act as a jump host, or any other work activity that needs a linux machine and is located near development mzones.
* These servers have no role in producing production artifacts.



| IP | Name | Location | Rack | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 9\.41\.33\.155 |  | TD | rk003\-s12 | Ubuntu 18\.04 |
| 9\.41\.33\.158 |  | TD | rk003\-s40 | Ubuntu 18\.04 \- used by [John DePetrillo](https://confluence.swg.usma.ibm.com:8445/display/~John.DePetrillo@ibm.com) [Nolan Ring](https://confluence.swg.usma.ibm.com:8445/display/~nolan.ring@ibm.com) [Michael Kudla](https://confluence.swg.usma.ibm.com:8445/display/~makudla@us.ibm.com) |
| 9\.41\.33\.157 |  | TD | rk003\-s41 | Ubuntu 16\.04\.3 LTS |
|  |  |  |  |  |



 


Document generated by Confluence on Aug 01, 2024 16:15


[Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/)


 


